---
title: 'New ACH Liaison Volunteers'
date: '2020-08-25'
---
Welcome to our newest group of ACH liaison volunteers from regional digital humanities groups! These folks will work with the Affiliation &amp; Liaisons Committee to advance the mission of ACH through communication, outreach, and partnerships with digital humanities-centric communities, groups, and organizations.

**Hélène Huet** is the European Studies Librarian at the University of Florida (UF) and the Chair of the [Florida Digital Humanities Consortium](https://www.fldh.org/) (FLDH). She is particularly interested in studying how digital tools can help facilitate student and faculty research. At UF, she is the co-convener of the DH Working Group and has been involved with the DH Graduate Certificate (committee member and co-teacher of a course). As the former Chair of the Collection Development Working Group of the [Collaborative Initiative for French Language Collections](https://www.crl.edu/programs/cifnal) (CIFNAL), she oversaw the creation of a list of [French and Francophone Digital Humanities projects](https://guides.uflib.ufl.edu/frdhprojects). This list showcases the various French and Francophone-focused digital projects that scholars are working on worldwide. She has published in *Digital Humanities Quarterly* and has created two DH projects: [Mapping Decadence](http://mappingdecadence.org/) and the [WWI Diary of Albert Huet](https://helenehuet.org/albert-huets-diary/). She holds a Ph.D in French and Francophone Studies from the Pennsylvania State University. Hélène will serve as the ACH liaison to the [FLDH](https://www.fldh.org/).

**Nabil Kashyap** is the Digital Scholarship Librarian at Swarthmore College. As developer, designer, and project manager, his work has ranged from radical digital archives to participatory computational linguistics. He is increasingly involved in student programs and projects that bridge critical and technical pedagogy. He holds an MSI from the University of Michigan and an MFA from the University of Montana. Nabil will serve as the ACH liaison to [Keystone DH](http://keystonedh.network/2020/).

**Kimon Keramides** is a Clinical Associate Professor of Experimental Humanities &amp; Social Engagement and Affiliated Faculty in International Relations at NYU. Kimon holds additional positions as an adjunct faculty member of the CUNY Graduate Center’s Certificate Program in Interactive Technology and Pedagogy, co-director of the queer public history site OutHistory, and co-director of the Digital Humanities Research Center at ITMO University in St. Petersburg, Russia. His research and pedagogy take place at the intersection of media and technology studies, sociology and political economy of culture, cultural history, and public and digital humanities. Kimon works in transmedia or digital publication with recent work including his exhibition/book/digital application project *The Interface Experience* (2015) and co-curation of the digital exhibition *The Sogdians: Influencers on the Silk Roads* (2019). Kimon is involved in national and international collaborations with the Cooper Hewitt Design Museum and Freer|Sackler Asian Art Galleries of the Smithsonian, the State Hermitage Museum in St. Petersburg, Russia, and NYU Abu Dhabi and Zayed University in the United Arab Emirates. Kimon is also co-founder of both New York City Digital Humanities (NYCDH) and The Journal of Interactive Technology and Pedagogy. Kimon will serve as the ACH liaison to the [NYC Digital Humanities](https://nycdh.org/).

**John Knox** is the Digital Projects Specialist at the University of North Carolina Wilmington’s Randall Library where he works with librarians, faculty, and students on digitization and digital humanities projects. John is also one of the leaders of UNCW’s Digital Humanities Initiative. Prior to working at UNCW, John served as Assistant Director of the Center for Digital Humanities at the University of South Carolina. John’s research interests include text mining, digital publishing and exhibits, DH pedagogy, British Romanticism and Scottish philosophy. John serves on the Executive Board of the Digital Humanities Collaborative of North Carolina (DHC-NC) and will serve as the ACH liaison to the [DHC-NC](https://dhcnc.org/).

**Pamella Lach** is the Digital Humanities Librarian at San Diego State University. She is Director of the Library’s [Digital Humanities Center](https://library.sdsu.edu/dh) and Co-Director of SDSU’s [Digital Humanities Initiative](https://library.sdsu.edu/dh). Pam’s work explores how new and emerging technologies transform humanistic scholarship and pedagogy. Her areas of interest include data visualization, information retrieval, user experience design, and digital pedagogy. She has a PhD in U.S. Cultural History with an emphasis on gender and film history from UNC, and an MS in Information Science from UNC’s School of Information and Library Science. Pam will serve as the ACH liaison to West Coast DH.

**Alexandra Sarkozy** is a science and digital scholarship librarian at Wayne State University. She works with faculty, students, and staff to incorporate digital methods and tools into the undergraduate and graduate curriculum, and consults on projects in humanities and the social sciences that seek to incorporate digital methods and approaches. Alexandra was a member of the first cohort of community leaders at the NEH-funded Digital Humanities Research Institute at the CUNY Grad Center. Alexandra is on the advisory board for the Master’s in Public History program at Wayne State University, and works closely with the Reuther Library at Wayne State to explore new ways to collect, collaborate, and teach with primary sources. Alexandra will serve as the ACH liaison to the [Network Detroit/Wayne State University DH](http://detroitdh.org/) community.

**Rachel Starry** (PhD, Bryn Mawr College) is the Digital Scholarship Librarian at the University of California, Riverside Library. Previously she was a CLIR Postdoctoral Fellow in Social Science Data Curation at the University at Buffalo Libraries (SUNY). Her current professional activities include serving on the steering committee for the Institute for Liberal Arts Digital Scholarship (ILiADS) and co-organizing the Ancient MakerSpaces 2021 session at the AIA-SCS Annual Meeting. Rachel will serve as the ACH liaison to the [Institute for Liberal Arts Digital Scholarship](https://iliads.org/) (ILiADS).